---
layout: post
title: 2006 June - So1913
tags:
date: 2006-06-01 12:00:00
image1: /assets/files/so19131.jpg
image2: /assets/files/so19132.jpg
---
## What is your hair care regimen?

Currently, my regimen consists of frequent conditioner washes (daily to 3 days a week) and deep conditioning treatments once a week to once every two weeks. My deep conditioning treatments are done using BBD Stretch and a heating cap for about 30 to 45 minutes. I do use shampoo once a week to remove any build up from products and conditioners. I try to trim my hair about every 4 months, however I have fallen behind to as much as 6 months. I believe trimming the hair is an important part of keeping any damage from traveling up the hair shaft, as well as keeping your hair looking full, even, and healthy.

After washing, I apply a leave in conditioner, currently a combination of BBD Stretch and Jamaican Mango Lime Cactus Leave In. I ALWAYS use a leave in. I believe it is important in protecting the hair against the elements in the air, styling abuse, and just for feeding the hair the nutrients it needs. I will apply additional styling product, depending on the look I am trying to achieve for the day. Some of the styling products I may use for more or less control and definition are Fantasia IC Gel with Sparkle-lites (Regular or for Color Treated Hair), BBD Glass, Miss Jessie's Curly Pudding, or Paul Mitchell Conditioning Styling Foam. After applying leave in's and styling aids, I will wrap my hair up in a micro fiber towel and go about getting myself ready for the day. This towel absorbs a lot of the water allowing my hair to dry faster.. During the work week, I mostly style my hair in a large "puff" using an ouchless headband (doubled for a better fit on my head) or I will slick back into a sleek, low pony puff using Fantasia Thick and Shine Gel, using an ouchless ponytail holder. I will use a diffuser to dry my hair about 75% if I'm wearing my hair in a large "puff" and don't have time to air dry before heading out the door. My hair is very "droopy" when wet, so the more it is dry, the easier it is for me to style my hair when I wear it in a puff. For additional moisture, nutrients, as well as acting as a moisture sealant, I will apply a butter based moisturizer. Currently in rotation, ( I say currently a lot because I am the biggest PJ out there and am constantly changing up products) I am using Jane Carter Solution Nourish and Shine, Jane Carter Nourishing Creme, and finishing off my Miss Jessie's Curly Buttercreme. There are many good pomades/cremes out there, however, my favorites come from a line called Asha's, specifically Mane Attraction, Heavenly Pudding, and Coco De Leche (as well as the various other products from the line). The product junkie in me keeps me product hopping, however, ultimately this line, in whole, is by far my favorite.

## Currently how long is your hair?

My hair is in layers right now, cut using the angle/balance method at Miss Jessie's Salon (formerly Curve Salon) in Brooklyn, NY. My longest layer is probably just short of armpit due to my recent cut in April, and the shortest layer towards the very top maybe about mid cheek level. My hair type varies through out my head. Towards the back, I have tight and well defined curls. As you move up towards the middle, the curls get slightly looser, and at the top more waves. I don't label my hair according to the various hair typing system as I feel they are not clear cut and everyone has their own interpretation of what the characteristics of a specific type is. In the past, I have identified my hair with one type, however, another person would identify it with another, and it just became more confused to me. My thought is that if someone is looking for product, styling, or handling ideas, they can look at my hair and say "yeah, that's like mine" or "no, that's nothing like mine" and from there determine if what works or doesn't work for me is worth trying out to see if it will or won't work for them.

## Do you take any supplements, if so what are they?

I started in the month of May taking liquid silica and a liquid hair, skin, and nails supplement. I am still in the trail period, but will be sure to update everyone on the results after a reasonable amount of time and usage has lapsed.

## What are the things that you feel have helped you the most in achieving and maintaining your hair length?

The things that have helped me the most with maintaining my hair at it's current length are minimizing direct heat, eliminating chemicals, lots of moisture and conditioning. I rarely straighten my hair, in fact, it's been about a year since I last pressed. Keeping your hair moisturized and strong will allow you accumulate length. My hair may not be considered "long" to most, but that is because of my own scissor happy tendencies. Anyone can achieve length with proper care and patience, and it isn't as hard as many of us think or make it out to be. A gentle hand and implementing a few good hair care techniques can go a long way. I feel one of the biggest thing that hold people back when they make a conscious decision to take care of their hair and to grow it out is holding on to damaged hair. My advice is to get rid of as much damage as you can so that you can instantaneously start seeing the results of what a consistent good hair care regimen can do for you. Holding on to damaged hair will camouflage the results of your efforts causing discouragement, or even prevent results from occurring because the damage can continue to progress up the hair shaft effecting the undamaged part of the hair as time passes. Keep a positive attitude, and make multiple short term goals. Making a new goal each time you reach one will help keep you motivated in your mission.